[Case Study] BettyCrocker wake lock case study (#2494)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/betty-crocker/index.md

---
title: |
  Better cooking with the Wake Lock API : A&nbsp;case study with Betty Crocker
subhead: |
  After they have implemented the Wake Lock API, cooking site BettyCrocker.com's
  indicators of purchase intent were about 300% higher for wake lock users compared to all users.
authors:
  - thomassteiner
date: 2020-04-22
updated: 2020-04-22

> hero: hero.jpg

Author: This is a placeholder, we're waiting for their marketing department to provide us with a better one. Sorry, this could've been mentioned somewhere.

alt: Betty Crocker Cake Mix—Coffee Cinnamon.
description: |
  Case study of cooking site BettyCrocker.com's experiences with implementing the Wake Lock API.
tags:
  - post # post is a required tag for the article to show up in the blog.
  - case-study
  - wake-lock
  - capabilities
  - fugu
draft: true
---
For nearly a century, Betty Crocker has been America's source for modern cooking instruction
and trusted recipe development.
Launched in 1997, their site [BettyCrocker.com](https://www.bettycrocker.com/)
today receives more than 12&nbsp;million visitors per month.
After they **implemented the Wake Lock API**, their
**indicators of purchase intent were about 300% higher**

> for wake lock users compared to all users.

Reviewer: We have a nice [stat component](https://web.dev/handbook/web-dev-components/#stats) that you can use to bring extra attention to the stat.

> for wake lock users compared to all users.

Author: > We have a nice stat component that you can use to bring extra attention to the stat.

Now [using it](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/web.dev/pull/2494/commits/d1fb748f9316711337a016cd8982f2be543053a9).

## The retired iOS and Android apps

Released to [much fanfare](https://consumergoods.com/betty-crocker-launches-cookbook-app) in 2014,
Betty Crocker recently took their native apps out of the Apple App Store and the Google Play Store

> after it had been mostly neglected and deprioritized.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
after they had been mostly neglected and deprioritized.
```

This should be `they` because it's a reference to `native apps` (plural)

For a long time, the Betty Crocker team has preferred adding new features to the mobile site
instead of the native apps.
The technical platform the native apps were created on was outdated,
and the business did not have the resources
to support updating and maintaining the apps moving forward.

> In addition to that, the web app also was objectively way bigger traffic-wise,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The web app also was objectively way bigger traffic-wise,
```
We can remove these words without changing the meaning of the sentence

(The less words in general, the more likely someone is to read through the entire document)

more modern, and easier to enhance.

> The native apps did have one *killer feature*, though, that its users loved:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The native apps did have one *killer feature*, though, that their users loved:
```

> Millennial cooking pro tip: the [@BettyCrocker](https://twitter.com/BettyCrocker) mobile app
  doesn't dim or lock when you're following a recipe.

>   […]—[@AvaBeilke](https://twitter.com/AvaBeilke/status/996746473168670720)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  —[@AvaBeilke](https://twitter.com/AvaBeilke/status/996746473168670720)
```
I think you can avoid the ellipsis. I get that we're using it to signify that it's not a complete quote, but you usually only need to use it when you're eliminating words from the middle of a sentence

> 80% of people cook with a device in the kitchen, but screen dimming and locking is a problem.
  What did [@BettyCrocker](https://twitter.com/BettyCrocker) do?
  Updated their app to NOT dim when users are in a recipe.

>   […]—[@Katie_Tweedy_](https://twitter.com/Katie_Tweedy_/status/996746567762763776)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  —[@Katie_Tweedy_](https://twitter.com/Katie_Tweedy_/status/996746567762763776)
```

> ## The Wake Lock API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Bringing the killer feature to the web with the Wake Lock API
```

When cooking with a device, there is nothing more frustrating
than having to touch the screen with messy hands or even your nose when the screen turns off.
Betty Crocker asked themselves how they could port the killer feature of their native app
over to the web app.
This is when they learned about
[Project Fugu](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/capabilities) and the
[Wake Lock API](https://web.dev/wakelock/).

> ![Doughy fingers](doughy-fingers.jpg)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![A person kneading dough on a kitchen table covered in flour](doughy-fingers.jpg)
```
If I couldn't see the picture I'm not sure I would know what `doughy fingers` means... like fingers made out of dough?

Reviewer: Please run this one through an optimizer also if you haven't already

The Wake Lock API provides a way to prevent the device
from dimming or locking the screen.
This capability enables new experiences that, until now, required a native app.
The Wake Lock API reduces the need for hacky and potentially power-hungry workarounds.

### Requesting a wake lock

To request a wake lock, you need to call the `navigator.wakeLock.request()` method

> that returns a `WakeLockSentinel` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that returns a `WakeLockSentinel` object. You'll use this object as a
[sentinel value](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sentinel_value).
```
Our audience probably knows what a sentinel is but I don't think it hurts to provide a link for the minority that have never heard that idea before

### Releasing a wake lock

You also need a way to release a wake lock,
which is achieved by calling the `release()` method of the `WakeLockSentinel` object.
If you want to automatically release the wake lock after a certain period of time has passed,
you can use `window.setTimeout()` to call `release()`, as shown in the example below.

```js
// The wake lock sentinel.
let wakeLock = null;

// Function that attempts to request a wake lock.
const requestWakeLock = async () => {
  try {
    wakeLock = await navigator.wakeLock.request('screen');
    wakeLock.addEventListener('release', () => {
      console.log('Wake Lock was released');
    });
    console.log('Wake Lock is active');
  } catch (err) {
    console.error(`${err.name}, ${err.message}`);
  }
};

// Request a wake lock…
await requestWakeLock();
// …and release it again after 5s.
window.setTimeout(() => {
  wakeLock.release();
  wakeLock = null;
}, 5000);
```

## The implementation

With the new web app, users should be enabled to easily navigate through a recipe,
complete steps, and even walk away without the screen locking.
To achieve this goal, the team first built a quick front-end prototype

> as a proof the concept and to gather UX input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as a proof of concept and to gather UX input.
```

[Pillsbury](https://www.pillsbury.com/), and [Tablespoon](https://www.tablespoon.com/)).
Even though only Betty Crocker had a native app,
the three sites do have a shared code base,
so they were able to implement the component once, and deploy it everywhere,
as shown in the screenshots below.

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img class="w-screenshot" src="www.bettycrocker.com.png" alt="BettyCrocker.com wake lock toggle" width="400">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">BettyCrocker.com wake lock toggle.</figcaption>
</figure>

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img class="w-screenshot" src="www.pillsbury.com.png" alt="Pillsbury.com wake lock toggle" width="400">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">Pillsbury.com wake lock toggle.</figcaption>
</figure>

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img class="w-screenshot" src="www.tablespoon.com.png" alt="Tablespoon.com wake lock toggle" width="400">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">Tablespoon.com wake lock toggle.</figcaption>
</figure>

While focusing on the [`ViewModel` layer of the MVVM pattern](https://012.vuejs.org/guide/)
in developing the component based on the new site's modernized framework,
they developed with interoperability in mind

> to enable functionality on legacy and new frameworks of the site.

Reviewer: This paragraph was hard for me to read. Can you rephrase it? I suggest breaking it up into smaller sentences.

Author: Broken down.

> While focusing on the [`ViewModel` layer of the MVVM pattern](https://012.vuejs.org/guide/)
> in developing the component based on the new site's modernized framework,
> they developed with interoperability in mind
> to enable functionality on legacy and new frameworks of the site.

Author: ```suggestion
When developing the component based on the new site's modernized framework,
there was a strong focus on the [`ViewModel` layer of the MVVM pattern](https://012.vuejs.org/guide/).
The team also developed with interoperability in mind
to enable functionality on legacy and new frameworks of the site.
```

        if (this.isChecked) {
          this.timerId = setTimeout(
            this.$_releaseWakeLock,
            this.settingsInternal.timeoutDurationMs,
          );
        }
      },
      $_handleVisibilityChange: function() {
        //Handle navigating away from page/tab
        if (this.isChecked) {
          this.$_releaseWakeLock();
          this.isChecked = false;
        }
      },
      $_raiseAnalyticsEvent: function(eventType) {
        let eventParams = {
          EventType: eventType,
          Position: window.location.pathname || '',
        };
        Analytics.raiseEvent(eventParams);
      },
    },
  };
</script>
```

### Results

The Vue.js component has been deployed on all three sites and delivered great results.
During the period from December 10th, 2019 to January 10th, 2020,
BettyCrocker.com reported the following metrics:

- Of all Betty Crocker users with a browser compatible with the Wake Lock API,
  3.5% of them enabled the feature immediately, making it a top-5 action.
- The session duration for users who enabled the wake lock was 3.1× longer
  than for users who did not.
- The bounce rate for users who enabled the wake lock was 50% lower

>   for those using the wake lock feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  than for those not using the wake lock feature.
```

- Indicators of purchase intent were about 300% higher for wake lock users compared to all users.

## Conclusions

Betty Crocker has seen fantastic results using the Wake Lock API.
You can test the feature yourself by searching for your favorite recipe on any of their sites
([BettyCrocker](https://www.bettycrocker.com/),
[Pillsbury](https://www.pillsbury.com/), or [Tablespoon](https://www.tablespoon.com/))

> and toggling the "Prevent your screen from going dark while you cook" toggle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and enabling the **Prevent your screen from going dark while you cook** toggle.
```

Switching to `enabling` avoids having to use the word `toggle` redundantly

Style guide convention is to format UI labels in bold: https://developers.google.com/style/ui-elements#formatting

Use cases for wake locks do not stop at recipe sites.
Other examples are boarding pass or ticket apps that need to keep the screen on
until the barcode has been scanned, kiosk-style apps that keep the screen on continuously,
or web-based presentation apps that prevent the screen from sleeping during a presentation.

We have compiled [everything you need to know about the Wake Lock API](https://web.dev/wakelock/)

> in a comprehensive article over on our developer portal.

Reviewer: The usage of `developer portal` seems funny because it's a link to the same site (web.dev)

Author: ```suggestion
in a comprehensive article on this very site.
```

True. I will just remove this part.

---
title: |
  Wake Lock API case study: 300% increase in purchase intent indicators on BettyCrocker.com
subhead: |

>   After they have implemented the Wake Lock API, cooking site BettyCrocker.com's
>   indicators of purchase intent were about 300% higher for wake lock users compared to all users.

Author: ```suggestion
  Nothing is worse when cooking with a mobile device than its screen turning off in the middle of a recipe step.
  Learn how cooking site BettyCrocker.com used the Wake Lock API for profit to prevent this from happening.
```

> 80% of people cook with a device in the kitchen, but screen dimming and locking is a problem.
  What did [@BettyCrocker](https://twitter.com/BettyCrocker) do?
  Updated their app to NOT dim when users are in a recipe.
  That's listening to your consumer!
  […]—[@Katie_Tweedy_](https://twitter.com/Katie_Tweedy_/status/996746567762763776)

> Shout to [@livefront](https://twitter.com/livefront) in minneapolis
  who solved for the screen dim issues on [@BettyCrocker](https://twitter.com/BettyCrocker) app.
  It takes a village. […]—[@aimeereker](https://twitter.com/aimeereker/status/996751679415570435)

## The Wake Lock API

When cooking with a device, there is nothing more frustrating
than having to touch the screen with messy hands or even your nose when the screen turns off.
Betty Crocker asked themselves how they could port the killer feature of their native app
over to the web app.
This is when they learned about
[Project Fugu](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/capabilities) and the
[Wake Lock API](https://web.dev/wakelock/).

![Doughy fingers](doughy-fingers.jpg)

The Wake Lock API provides a way to prevent the device

> from dimming and locking the screen or going to sleep.

Author: ```suggestion
from dimming or locking the screen.
```

          }
        } catch (e) {
          if (window.GeneralMills.debugMode) {
            console.log(`Wake Lock Release Error: ${e.name}, ${e.message}`);
          }
        }
      },
      $_handleAbortTimer: function() {
        //If there is an existing timer then clear it and set to zero
        if (this.timerId !== 0) {
          clearTimeout(this.timerId);
          this.timerId = 0;
        }
        //Start new timer; Will be triggered from toggle enabled or scroll event
        if (this.isChecked) {
          this.timerId = setTimeout(
            this.$_releaseWakeLock,
            this.settingsInternal.timeoutDurationMs,
          );
        }
      },
      $_handleVisibilityChange: function() {
        //Handle navigating away from page/tab
        if (this.isChecked) {
          this.$_releaseWakeLock();
          this.isChecked = false;
        }
      },
      $_raiseAnalyticsEvent: function(eventType) {
        let eventParams = {
          EventType: eventType,
          Position: window.location.pathname || '',
        };
        GeneralMills.Analytics && GeneralMills.Analytics.raiseEvent(eventParams);
      },
    },
  };
</script>
```

### Results

> The Vue.js component has been deployed on the three sites and delivered great results.
> The measuring period lasted from December 10th, 2019 to January 10th, 2020
> and covered the site BettyCrocker.com.

Author: ```suggestion
The Vue.js component has been deployed on all three sites and delivered great results.
During the period from December 10th, 2019 to January 10th, 2020,
BettyCrocker.com reported the following metrics:
```

> - Of all Betty Crocker users with a browser compatible with the Wake Lock API,
>   3.5% of them enabled the feature (~127,000 users).
> - The session duration for users who enabled the wake lock was 4min 18sec,
>   versus 1min 38sec for users who did not.
> - The bounce rate for users who enabled the wake lock was 21.85%,
>   versus 56.51% for users who did not.
> - During a one month time period, 27,563 users enabled the wake lock multiple times.
> - After enabling the wake lock, 1.43% of users intended to purchase ingredients
>   (measured by coupon code clicks), versus 0.37% for all users.

Author: ```suggestion
- Of all Betty Crocker users with a browser compatible with the Wake Lock API,
  3.5% of them enabled the feature immediately, making it a top-5 action.
- The session duration for users who enabled the wake lock was 3.1× longer
  than for users who did not.
- The bounce rate for users who enabled the wake lock was 50% lower
  for those using the wake lock feature.
- Coupon clicks (one indicator of purchase intent) was about 300% higher
  for wake lock users compared to all users.
```

## Conclusions

> Betty Crocker have seen fantastic results with the Wake Lock API.

Author: ```suggestion
Betty Crocker has seen fantastic results using the Wake Lock API.
```

---
title: |
  Better cooking with the Wake Lock API : A&nbsp;case study with Betty Crocker
subhead: |

authors:
  - thomassteiner
date: 2020-04-01
hero: hero.jpg
alt: Betty Crocker Cake Mix—Coffee Cinnamon.
description: |

tags:
  - post # post is a required tag for the article to show up in the blog.
  - case-study
  - wake-lock
  - capabilities
  - fugu
draft: true
---
## About Betty Crocker

For nearly a century, Betty Crocker has been America's source for modern cooking instruction
and trusted recipe development.
Since 1921, when (the fictive character) Betty Crocker began answering questions
about baking by letter, she has been working to teach people to cook.
Launched in 1997, [BettyCrocker.com](https://www.bettycrocker.com/)
continues the legacy of adapting, discovering, and sharing the knowledge that home cooks crave.
Today, the site receives more than 12&nbsp;million visitors per month.

## The retired iOS and Android apps

Launched to [much fanfare](https://consumergoods.com/betty-crocker-launches-cookbook-app) in 2014,
Betty Crocker recently took their native apps out of the Apple App Store and the Google Play Store
after it had been mostly neglected and deprioritized.

> For a long time, the Betty Crocker team have preferred adding features to the mobile site

Reviewer 2: For a long time, the Betty Crocker team has preferred adding new features to the mobile site instead of the native apps

> For a long time, the Betty Crocker team have preferred adding features to the mobile site
> instead of to the native apps.

Author: ```suggestion
For a long time, the Betty Crocker team has preferred adding new features to the mobile site
instead of the native apps.
```

to support updating and maintaining the apps moving forward.
In addition to that, the web app also was objectively way bigger traffic-wise,
more modern, and easier to enhance.

The native apps did have one *killer feature*, though, that its users loved:

> Millennial cooking pro tip: the [@BettyCrocker](https://twitter.com/BettyCrocker) mobile app
  doesn't dim or lock when you're following a recipe. TRYING THIS TONIGHT!
  […]—[@AvaBeilke](https://twitter.com/AvaBeilke/status/996746473168670720)

> 80% of people cook with a device in the kitchen, but screen dimming and locking is a problem.
  What did [@BettyCrocker](https://twitter.com/BettyCrocker) do?
  Updated their app to NOT dim when users are in a recipe.
  That's listening to your consumer!
  […]—[@Katie_Tweedy_](https://twitter.com/Katie_Tweedy_/status/996746567762763776)

> Shout to [@livefront](https://twitter.com/livefront) in minneapolis
  who solved for the screen dim issues on [@BettyCrocker](https://twitter.com/BettyCrocker) app.
  It takes a village. […]—[@aimeereker](https://twitter.com/aimeereker/status/996751679415570435)

## The Wake Lock API

When cooking with a device, there is nothing more frustrating

> than having to touch the screen with messy hands or even your nose when the screen locks up.

Reviewer 2: locks up suggests it froze... "when the screen turns off"

> than having to touch the screen with messy hands or even your nose when the screen locks up.

Author: ```suggestion
than having to touch the screen with messy hands or even your nose when the screen turns off.
```

Betty Crocker asked themselves how they could port the killer feature of their native app
over to the web app.
This is when they learned about
[Project Fugu](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/capabilities) and the

> [Wake Lock API](https://web.dev/wakelock/)
> that is being developed in the context of the project.

Author: ```suggestion
[Wake Lock API](https://web.dev/wakelock/).
```

> 

Reviewer 2: delete "that is being developed in the context of the project"

![Doughy fingers](doughy-fingers.jpg)

The Wake Lock API provides a way to prevent the device

> from dimming and locking the screen or going to sleep.

Reviewer 2: from dimming or locking the screen.

          }
        } catch (e) {
          if (window.GeneralMills.debugMode) {
            console.log(`Wake Lock Release Error: ${e.name}, ${e.message}`);
          }
        }
      },
      $_handleAbortTimer: function() {
        //If there is an existing timer then clear it and set to zero
        if (this.timerId !== 0) {
          clearTimeout(this.timerId);
          this.timerId = 0;
        }
        //Start new timer; Will be triggered from toggle enabled or scroll event
        if (this.isChecked) {
          this.timerId = setTimeout(
            this.$_releaseWakeLock,
            this.settingsInternal.timeoutDurationMs,
          );
        }
      },
      $_handleVisibilityChange: function() {
        //Handle navigating away from page/tab
        if (this.isChecked) {
          this.$_releaseWakeLock();
          this.isChecked = false;
        }
      },
      $_raiseAnalyticsEvent: function(eventType) {
        let eventParams = {
          EventType: eventType,
          Position: window.location.pathname || '',
        };
        GeneralMills.Analytics && GeneralMills.Analytics.raiseEvent(eventParams);
      },
    },
  };
</script>
```

### Results

> The Vue.js component has been deployed on the three sites and delivered great results.

Reviewer 2: The Vue.js component has been deployed on all three sites and delivered great results. During the period from December 10th, 2019 to January 10th, 2020, BettyCrocker.com reported the following metrics:

The measuring period lasted from December 10th, 2019 to January 10th, 2020
and covered the site BettyCrocker.com.

- Of all Betty Crocker users with a browser compatible with the Wake Lock API,
  3.5% of them enabled the feature (~127,000 users).
- The session duration for users who enabled the wake lock was 4min 18sec,
  versus 1min 38sec for users who did not.
- The bounce rate for users who enabled the wake lock was 21.85%,
  versus 56.51% for users who did not.
- During a one month time period, 27,563 users enabled the wake lock multiple times.
- After enabling the wake lock, 1.43% of users intended to purchase ingredients
  (measured by coupon code clicks), versus 0.37% for all users.

## Conclusions

> Betty Crocker have seen fantastic results with the Wake Lock API.

Reviewer 2: Betty Crocker has seen fantastic results using the Wake Lock API.

---
title: |
  Wake Lock API case study: 300% increase in purchase intent indicators on BettyCrocker.com
subhead: |
  Nothing is worse when cooking with a mobile device than its screen turning off in the middle of a recipe step.

>   Learn how cooking site BettyCrocker.com used the Wake Lock API for profit to prevent this from happening.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Learn how cooking site BettyCrocker.com used the Wake Lock API to prevent this from happening.
```

authors:
  - thomassteiner
date: 2020-04-22
updated: 2020-04-28
hero: hero.jpg
alt: Betty Crocker Cake Mix—Coffee Cinnamon.
description: |
  Case study of cooking site BettyCrocker.com's experiences with implementing the Wake Lock API.
tags:
  - post # post is a required tag for the article to show up in the blog.
  - case-study
  - wake-lock
  - capabilities
  - fugu

> draft: true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Just leaving a reminder to remove this before merging

---
title: |
  Wake Lock API case study: 300% increase in purchase intent indicators on BettyCrocker.com
subhead: |
  Nothing is worse when cooking with a mobile device than its screen turning off
  in the middle of a recipe step.
  Learn how cooking site BettyCrocker.com used the Wake Lock API to prevent this from happening.
authors:
  - thomassteiner
  - phillipkriegel
date: 2020-04-22
updated: 2020-04-29
hero: hero.jpg
alt: Betty Crocker Cake Mix—Coffee Cinnamon.
description: |
  Case study of cooking site BettyCrocker.com's experiences with implementing the Wake Lock API.
tags:

>   - post # post is a required tag for the article to show up in the blog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - blog
```

    wakeLock.addEventListener('release', () => {
      console.log('Wake Lock was released');
    });
    console.log('Wake Lock is active');
  } catch (err) {
    console.error(`${err.name}, ${err.message}`);
  }
};

// Request a wake lock…
await requestWakeLock();
// …and release it again after 5s.
window.setTimeout(() => {
  wakeLock.release();
  wakeLock = null;
}, 5000);
```

## The implementation

With the new web app, users should be enabled to easily navigate through a recipe,
complete steps, and even walk away without the screen locking.
To achieve this goal, the team first built a quick front-end prototype
as a proof of concept and to gather UX input.

After the prototype proved useful, they designed a
[Vue.js component](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/components.html)
that could be shared across all their brands ([BettyCrocker](https://www.bettycrocker.com/),
[Pillsbury](https://www.pillsbury.com/), and [Tablespoon](https://www.tablespoon.com/)).
Even though only Betty Crocker had a native app,
the three sites do have a shared code base,
so they were able to implement the component once, and deploy it everywhere,
as shown in the screenshots below.

<figure class="w-figure">

>   <img class="w-screenshot" src="www.bettycrocker.com.png" alt="BettyCrocker.com wake lock toggle" width="400">

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  <img class="w-screenshot" src="www.bettycrocker.com.png" alt="BettyCrocker.com wake lock toggle" width="600">
```

  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">BettyCrocker.com wake lock toggle.</figcaption>
</figure>

<figure class="w-figure">

>   <img class="w-screenshot" src="www.pillsbury.com.png" alt="Pillsbury.com wake lock toggle" width="400">

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  <img class="w-screenshot" src="www.pillsbury.com.png" alt="Pillsbury.com wake lock toggle" width="600">
```

  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">Pillsbury.com wake lock toggle.</figcaption>
</figure>

<figure class="w-figure">

>   <img class="w-screenshot" src="www.tablespoon.com.png" alt="Tablespoon.com wake lock toggle" width="400">

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  <img class="w-screenshot" src="www.tablespoon.com.png" alt="Tablespoon.com wake lock toggle" width="600">
```
